Pulsar Classification 
Pulsars are subset of neutron stars with the distinguishing feature of being highly magnetized and fast spinning. This characteristic causes them to appear as pulsating radio wave sources when observed (some do give off x-ray and even visible light pulses) (https://astronomy.swin.edu.au/cosmos/p/pulsar). The pulse is a result of the pulsar’s radio beam sweeping past the earth for every rotation. Due to the very regular and precise nature of the pulses they give off, pulsars have become extremely important astronomical objects. They are used by physicists to conduct experiments on the most extreme areas of relativity and for making observations on the structure of our universe (https://www.nrao.edu/pr/2012/aaaspulsars/).  More can be read about pulsars and how they are being studied can be found in the links found in this write up and here (https://chandra.si.edu/xray_sources/neutron_stars.html). 

Source Data
Data for about 18,000 neutron stars, some of which being pulsars, was obtained from the High Time Resolution Universe Survey and can be found here (https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/HTRU2).
Each observation contains 9 variables (8 predictors and 1 classification). The 8 predictors are comprised of 4 statistical attributes (mean, standard deviation, excess kurtosis, and skew)  for the integrated radio profile and dispersion measure signal to noise ratio (DM-SNR). As a pulsar’s radio signal travels through space it interacts with interstellar media. This interaction creates a frequency based time delay, higher frequencies being delayed less than lower frequencies. The radio frequency can be integrated into a single profile of which is one of the predictors described in this app. To allow for the integration of the radio profile, the dispersion of each frequency has to be measured (essentially a factor that is applied to account for the time delay). The dispersion measure can be analyzed to produce more statistics on the neutron star in question. The information provided by both the integrated profile and the dispersion measure provides a sort of a finger print for the neutron star. A more in depth explanation of this can be found here (https://arxiv.org/abs/1603.05166). 

Application purpose
The purpose of this app is to provide an interactive data analysis of neutron star data. The app allows you to view the raw data and get an understanding of the range of each of the predictors (see the “Data” tab). There is also the ability to graph the data in various scatter and density plots. Also, allowing you to view how the predictors relate to each other (see “Exploratory Data Analysis” tab). For a deeper dive into the data, the app has the ability to run a clustering and principal component analysis on the data (see “Deep Dive” tab). Finally, the user will be able to create 3 different prediction models and test them to see how well a pulsar can be identified using the provided data (see “Prediction Model” tab). Instruction on how to use each tools are provided in the respective tabs.
